.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)alarm.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.TH ALARM 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR alarm
\- set signal timer alarm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
long
\fBalarm\fR (long \fIseconds\fR);
.br
long
\fBalarm10\fR (long \fItenths\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.BR alarm 
function
waits a count of
.BR seconds
before asserting the terminating signal
.BR SIGALRM .
When the signal has successfully been caught,
.BR alarm 
returns the amount of time left on the clock.
.LP
If an alarm has been set with
.BR alarm ,
another call to
.BR alarm 
will supersede the prior call.
If
.IR seconds
is zero, the alarm timer is disabled.
.LP
.BR alarm10
is identical to 
.BR alarm ,
except that values are measured in tenths of seconds.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are possible.
.SH STANDARDS
.BR alarm
is not quite POSIX conformant in that it uses types of
.BR long
rather than
.BR "unsigned int" .
.BR alarm10
is a non-standard function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR sigpause (2),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sleep (3),
.BR ualarm (3),
.BR usleep (3)
.SH HISTORY
An
.BR alarm 
function appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
