.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)bind.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH BIND 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR bind
\- bind a name to a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <sys/types.h>
.br
#include <sys/socket.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBbind\fR (int \fIs\fR, struct sockaddr *\fIname\fR, int \fInamelen\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Bind 
assigns a name to an unnamed socket.
When a socket is created 
with
.BR socket (2)
it exists in a name space (address family)
but has no name assigned.
.BR Bind 
requests that
.I name
be assigned to the socket.
.SH NOTES
Binding a name in the UNIX domain creates a socket in the file
system that must be deleted by the caller when it is no longer
needed (using
.BR unlink (2)).
.LP
The rules used in name binding vary between communication domains.
Consult the manual entries in section 4 for detailed information.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the bind is successful, a 0 value is returned.
A return value of -1 indicates an error, which is
further specified in the global
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR bind 
call will fail if:
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
.I S
is not a valid descriptor.
.IP \fBENOTSOCK\fR
.I S
is not a socket.
.IP \fBEADDRNOTAVAIL\fR
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.IP \fBEADDRINUSE\fR
The specified address is already in use.
.IP \fBEINVAL\fR
The socket is already bound to an address.
.IP \fBEACCES\fR
The requested address is protected, and the current user
has inadequate permission to access it.
.IP \fBEFAULT\fR
The
.I name
parameter is not in a valid part of the user
address space.
.RE
.LP
The following errors are specific to binding names in the UNIX domain.
.RS
.IP \fBENOTDIR\fR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.IP \fBEINVAL\fR
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.IP \fBENAMETOOLONG\fR
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.IP \fBENOENT\fR
A prefix component of the path name does not exist.
.IP \fBELOOP\fR
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.IP \fBEIO\fR
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating the inode.
.IP \fBEROFS\fR
The name would reside on a read-only file system.
.IP \fBEISDIR\fR
An empty pathname was specified.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getsockname (2)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR bind
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
The first appearance in GNO was in v2.0.5.
