.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)close.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.TH CLOSE 2 "22 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR close
\- delete a descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBclose\fR(int \fIfd\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR close 
call deletes a descriptor from the per-process file descriptor table.
If this is the last reference to the underlying object, the
object will be deactivated.
For example, on the last close of a file
the current
.IR seek 
pointer associated with the file is lost;
on the last close of a
.BR socket (2)
associated naming information and queued data are discarded;
on the last close of a file holding an advisory lock
the lock is released (see further
.BR flock (2)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and the global integer variable
.IR errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR Close 
will fail if:
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
.I fd
is not an active descriptor.
.IP \fBEINTR\fR
An interrupt was received.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR flock (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2),
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2)
.SH STANDARDS
.BR close 
conforms to IEEE Std 1003.1-1988 (POSIX).
