.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)dup.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH DUP 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR dup ,
.BR dup2
\- duplicate an existing file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBdup\fR (int \fIoldfd\fR);
.br
int
\fBdup2\fR (int \fIoldfd\fR, int \fInewfd\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Dup 
duplicates an existing file descriptor and returns its value to
the calling process.
The argument
.I oldfd
is a small non-negative integer index in
the per-process descriptor table.  The value must be less
than the size of the table, which is returned by
.BR getdtablesize (2).
The new descriptor returned by the call
is the lowest numbered descriptor
currently not in use by the process.
.LP
The file referenced by the descriptor does not distinguish
between
.I oldfd
and
.I newfd
in any way.
Thus if
.I newfd
and
.I oldfd
are duplicate references to an open
file,
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2)
and
.BR lseek (2)
calls all move a single pointer into the file,
and append mode, non-blocking I/O and asynchronous I/O options
are shared between the references.
If a separate pointer into the file is desired, a different
reference to the file must be obtained by issuing an
additional
.BR open (2)
call.
The close-on-exec flag on the new file descriptor is unset.
.LP
In 
.BR dup2 ,
the value of the new descriptor
.I newfd
is specified.  If this descriptor is already
in use, the descriptor is first deallocated as if a
.BR close (2)
call had been done first.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The value -1 is returned if an error occurs in either call.
The external variable
.IR errno
indicates the cause of the error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR Dup 
and
.BR dup2 
fail if:
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
.I Oldfd
or
.I newfd
is not a valid active descriptor
.IP \fBEMFILE\fR
Too many descriptors are active.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2),
.BR getdtablesize (2)
.SH STANDARDS
.BR Dup 
and
.BR dup2 
are expected to conform
to IEEE Std 1003.1-1988 (POSIX).
