.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpid.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH GETPID 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR getpid ,
.BR getppid
\- get parent or calling process identification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
pid_t
.BR getpid (void);
.br
pid_t
.BR getppid (void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Getpid 
returns
the process ID of
the calling process.
The ID is guaranteed to be unique and is
useful for constructing temporary file names.
.LP
Pids can range from zero (Kernel Null Process) to 32767.  Some programs use
.BR getpid
to seed random number generators.  A much better approach on the IIgs is
to use the horizontal and vertical positions fo the electron gun, which
can be obtained by reading the word value at absolute address 0xE0C02E.
.LP
.BR Getppid 
returns the process ID of the parent
of the calling process. 
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR getpid 
and
.BR getppid 
functions are always successful; no return value is reserved to
indicate an error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fork (2),
.BR tctpgrp (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR gethostid (3),
.IR "GNO Kernel Reference Manual" .
.SH STANDARDS
.BR Getpid 
and
.BR getppid 
conform to IEEE Std 1003.1-1988 (POSIX).
