.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)gettimeofday.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH GETTIMEOFDAY 2 "22 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR gettimeofday ,
.BR settimeofday
\- get/set date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <sys/time.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBgettimeofday\fR (struct timeval *\fItp\fR, struct timezone *\fItzp\fR);
.sp 1
int
\fBsettimeofday\fR (struct timeval *\fItp\fR, struct timezone *\fItzp\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system's notion of the current Greenwich time and the current time
zone is obtained with the
.BR gettimeofday 
call, and set with the
.BR settimeofday 
call.  The time is expressed in seconds and microseconds
since midnight (0 hour), January 1, 1970.  The resolution of the system
clock is hardware dependent, and the time may be updated continuously or
in ``ticks.''  If
.I tp
or
.I tzp
is NULL, the associated time
information will not be returned or set.
.LP
The structures pointed to by
.I tp
and
.I tzp
are defined in <sys/time.h> as:
.nf

struct timeval {
	long	tv_sec;		/* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
	long	tv_usec;	/* and microseconds */
};

struct timezone {
	int	tz_minuteswest; /* of Greenwich */
	int	tz_dsttime;	/* type of dst correction to apply */
};
.fi
.LP
The 
.I timezone
structure indicates the local time zone
(measured in minutes of time westward from Greenwich),
and a flag that, if nonzero, indicates that
Daylight Saving time applies locally during
the appropriate part of the year.
.LP
Only the super-user may set the time of day or time zone.
.SH RETURN
A 0 return value indicates that the call succeeded.
A -1 return value indicates an error occurred, and in this
case an error code is stored into the global variable
.IR errno .
.SH BUGS
For GNO,
.BR settimeofday
is not currently implemented.  
.BR gettimeofday
is a minimal implementation that stores into \fItp\fR->sec the
value returned by
.BR time (2).
The \fItp\fR->usec field is set to zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR adjtime (2),
.BR ctime (3),
.BR clocks (7),
.BR timed (8)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR settimeofday
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
