.\"
.\" $Id: jobcontrol.2,v 1.1 1997/02/27 07:32:14 gdr Exp $
.\"
.TH "JOBCONTROL" 2 "19 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR settpgrp ,
.BR tcnewpgrp ,
.BR tctpgrp
\- interface for the new job control model
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <gno/gno.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBtcnewpgrp\fR(int \fIfdtty\fR);
.br
int
\fBsettpgrp\fR(int \fIfdtty\fR);
.br
int
\fBtctpgrp\fR(int \fIfdtty\fR, int \fIpid\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The job control interface is used to control what processes are 'in
the foreground' on a particular terminal.  Every tty has a process group.
Each process is a member of a process group.  A process is a foreground
process on a tty if and only if that process and the terminal belong
to the same process group.  Certain characters (such as ^C) typed on a
tty with a non-zero process group produce signals sent to every process
which is a member of the group.
.LP
A process is suspended (stopped) if it performs a sufficiently invasive
operation on a tty with a different process group.  This includes these
job control calls, reads from a terminal, and writes to a terminal if
it is configured to do so with 
.BR ioctl (2).
When a tty file is first opened, it is assigned process group zero
.RB ( init (8)
has process group zero).  As
.BR init
launches login processes on various ttys, it assigns process groups
to those ttys and processes.
.LP
.BR tcnewpgrp
allocates a new process group and assigns it to the terminal referred
to by 
.IR fdtty .
If the calling process is not in the foreground, it is sent
.BR SIGTTOU .
.LP
.BR settpgrp
sets the current process to have the process group as 
.IR fdtty .
.LP
.BR tctpgrp 
sets the tty referred to by
.IR fdtty
to the same process group as the process
.IR pid ,
where
.IR pid
is the current process or a descendant of it.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These calls will return zero on success, otherwise they'll return -1
and set
.BR errno
accordingly.
.SH ERRORS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
.IR fdtty 
is not a valid file descriptor.
.IP \fBENOTTY\fR
.IR fdtty
does not refer to a terminal file.
.IP \fBESRCH\fR
.IR pid
is not a valid process identifier.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following are some example uses of the job control interface.
.RS
.LP
Forking a pipeline in a job-control shell:  The shell starts with
.BR tcnewpgrp
so that the tty is in the new process group before there are even any 
children. It then
.BR fork s
each process in the pipeline.  Each process does
.BR settpgrp ,
thus joining the new process group.
.LP
Handling a stopped child process:  When the shell sees that a pipeline
has stopped or exited, it does
.BR tctpgrp
to set the tty to its own process group.  To resume the pipeline it does
.BR tctpgrp
where 
.IR pid
is one of the child processes, then sends 
.BR SIGCONT .
.LP
Starting a process under a new tty:  When, for instance,
telnetd (8)
wants to grap a pseudo-tty, it opens the pty and
.BR fork s
a child process.  The child does
.BR tcnewpgrp
to give the tty a real process group, then
.BR settpgrp 
to place itself into the foregroup.
.RE
Security under this scheme is trivial.  there is no way a process can join
a process group except by 
.BR settpgrp ,
and that requires a descriptor open to a tty with that
.IR pgrp .
To make a tty have that 
.Ir pgrp
requires either
.BR tcnewpgrp
(in which case nobody else is using the
.IR pgrp ),
or 
.BR tctpgrp
(which reduces to the first problem of having a process in the process
group).
.LP
Note that 'using' must be defined as use both by ttys and by processes; the
kernel keeps a table of 
.IR pgrp s,
each with a total tty and process reference count.  When the reference
count reaches zero, the 
.IR pgrp
is automatically deallocated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR tty (4),
.IR "GNO Shell Reference Manual" .
.SH CREDITS
This job control interface was designed by Dan Bernstein 
<brnstnd@kramden.acf.nyu.edu>.  He was inspired by Chris Torek, and
dedicated the system to Mark Teitelbaum.  The text of this manpage is
derived from his original specifications.
.LP
The GNO implementation was written strictly from specs.
