.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)listen.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"
.TH LISTEN 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR listen
\- listen for connections on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <sys/socket.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBlisten\fR (int \fIs\fR, int \fIbacklog\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
To accept connections, a socket
is first created with
.BR socket (2),
a willingness to accept incoming connections and
a queue limit for incoming connections are specified with
.BR listen ,
and then the connections are
accepted with
.BR accept (2).
The
.BR listen 
call applies only to sockets of type
.BR SOCK_STREAM
or
.BR SOCK_SEQPACKET.
.LP
The
.I backlog
parameter defines the maximum length the queue of
pending connections may grow to.
If a connection
request arrives with the queue full the client may
receive an error with an indication of
ECONNREFUSED,
or, if the underlying protocol supports retransmission,
the request may be ignored so that retries may succeed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
A 0 return value indicates success; -1 indicates an error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR Listen 
will fail if:
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
The argument
.I s
is not a valid descriptor.
.IP \fBENOTSOCK\fR
The argument
.I s
is not a socket.
.IP \fBEOPNOTSUPP\fR
The socket is not of a type that supports the operation
.BR listen .
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2)
.SH BUGS
The
.I backlog
is currently limited (silently) to 32.
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR listen
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
The first appearance in GNO was in v2.0.5.
