.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkdir.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"
.TH MKDIR 2 "22 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR mkdir
\- make a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <sys/stat.h>

GNO:		int \fBmkdir\fR (const char *\fIpath\fR);
POSIX:	int \fBmkdir\fR (const char *\fIpath\fR, mode_t \fImode\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The directory
.I path
is created with the access permissions specified by
.I mode
and restricted by the the
.BR umask (2)
of the calling process.
.LP
The directory's owner ID is set to the process's effective user ID.
The directory's group ID is set to that of the parent directory in
which it is created.
.SH RETURN VALUES
A 0 return value indicates success.  A -1 return value
indicates an error, and an error code is stored in
.IR errno .
.SH BUGS
The GNO implementation does not take a
.IR mode
parameter.  Attempting to provide one will cause stack errors.
The implementation should probably be changed to accept such a
parameter.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR umask (2)
.SH STANDARDS
Because of the missing 
.IR mode
parameter in the GNO implementation,
.BR mkdir 
does not conform to IEEE Std 1003.1-1988 (POSIX).
