.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setregid.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/16/94
.\"
.TH SETREGID 2 "16 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR setregid
\- set real and effective group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBsetregid\fR (gid_t \fIrgid\fR, gid_t \fIegid\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The real and effective group ID's of the current process
are set to the arguments.
Unprivileged users may change the real group
ID to the effective group ID and vice-versa; only the super-user may
make other changes.
.LP
Supplying a value of -1 for either the real or effective
group ID forces the system to substitute the current
ID in place of the -1 parameter.
.LP
The
.BR setregid 
function was intended to allow swapping
the real and effective group IDs
in set-group-ID programs to temporarily relinquish the set-group-ID value.
This function did not work correctly,
and its purpose is now better served by the use of the
.BR setegid 
function (see
.BR setuid (2)).
.LP
When setting the real and effective group IDs to the same value,
the standard
.BR setgid 
function is preferred.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
.IR errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.RS
.IP \fBEPERM\fR
The current process is not the super-user and a change
other than changing the effective group-id to the real group-id
was specified.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getgid (2),
.BR setegid (2),
.BR setgid (2),
.BR setuid (2)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR setregid
system call appeared in 4.2BSD.
