.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)truncate.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH TRUNCATE 2 "24 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR truncate ,
.BR ftruncate
\- truncate a file to a specified length
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
int
\fBtruncate\fR (const char *\fIpath\fR, off_t \fIlength\fR);
.br
int
\fBftruncate\fR (int \fIfd\fR, off_t \fIlength\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR truncate 
causes the file named by
.I path
or referenced by
.I fd
to be truncated to at most
.I length
bytes in size.  If the file previously
was larger than this size, the extra data
is lost.
With
.BR ftruncate ,
the file must be open for writing.
.SH RETURN VALUES
A value of 0 is returned if the call succeeds.  If the call
fails a -1 is returned, and the global variable
.IR errno
specifies the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2)
.SH BUGS
The GNO implementation of 
.BR truncate 
requires that the file must be able to be opened for writing.  If
this is not possible, 
.BR truncate 
returns -1 and sets
.IR errno .
.LP
These calls should be generalized to allow ranges
of bytes in a file to be discarded.
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR ftruncate
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
