.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)utimes.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH UTIMES 2 "6 January 1997" GNO "System Calls"
.SH NAME
.BR utimes
\- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <sys/time.h>
.sp 1
int
\fButimes\fR (const char *\fIfile\fR, const struct timeval *\fItimes\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR utimes 
function sets the access and modification times of the named file from
the structures in the argument array
.IR times .
.LP
The first structure is the access time, and the second is the modification
time.
.LP
If the times are specified (the
.I times
argument is non-NULL)
the caller must be the owner of the file or be the super-user.
.LP
If the times are not specified (the
.I times
argument is
.BR NULL )
the caller must be the owner of the file, have permission to
write the file, or be the super-user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
.IR errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.BR Utimes 
may fail and return any error that may be returned by
.BR __C2GSMALLOC (3)
or the GS/OS system calls
.BR GetFileInfoGS
or
.BR SetFileInfoGS .
.SH BUGS
The restrictions on ownership listed above are not enforced under
GNO since there is no concept of file ownership.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR __C2GSMALLOC (3),
.BR "GS/OS Refence Manual" .
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR utimes
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
