.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Devin Reade <gdr@trenco.gno.org>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id: catman.8,v 1.2 1998/03/29 07:15:47 gdr-ftp Exp $
.\"
.TH CATMAN 8 "28 March 1998" GNO "System Administration"
.SH NAME
catman \- format cat pages from man pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR catman
[
.B -pvV
] [[
.BI -M path
] | [
.BI -m path
]] [
.IR section " ..."
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR catman 
creates formatted versions of the on-line manual pages from their 
.BR nroff (1)
or
.BR aroff (1)
source.
Manual pages whose formatted versions are missing or out of date are 
regenerated.
.LP
If
.IR section
is specified, then
.BR catman
will only created formatted manual pages for the specified
.IR section (s).
.LP
Manual pages that are
.BR nroff (1)
source and are compressed with either
.BR compress (1),
.BR freeze (1),
or
.BR gzip (1)
are recognised provided that they have the suffixes
.BR ".Z" ,
.BR ".F" ,
and
.BR ".gz" ,
respectively.  Manual page names, including suffixes, are case sensitive.
.LP
Preformatted manual pages will be created in
.BI cat ?
only if that subdirectory exists.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-p\fP
Display the commands that would have been executed, but do not actually
execute them.
.IP "\fB-M\fR \fIpath\fR"
Set
.I path
to be the list of paths for which manual pages will be updated.
If not set, the value of
.BR MANPATH ,
.BR USRMAN ,
or
.BR MANDIR
will be used instead.  Multiple directories may be specified by
separating them either by colons or by spaces.  In the latter case,
be sure to quote
.I path
from the shell.
.IP "\fB-m\fR \fIpath\fR"
Append
.I path
on to the list of paths for which manual pages will be updated.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Display version information and exit.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Verbose.  Show processing information.
.SH WARNING
.BR catman
will unlink any out-of-date files in the
.BI cat ?
subdirectories.  The files that would be unlinked are listed when
.BR catman
is invoked with the 
.BR -p
option.
.SH VERSION
This manual page documents
.BR catman
version 3.1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apropos (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR gzip (1),
.BR compress (1),
.BR freeze (1),
.BR makewhatis (8).
