.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fgetln.3	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.TH FGETLN 3 "19 April 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR fgetln
\- get a line from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdio.h>
.sp 1
char *\fBfgetln\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR, size_t *\fIlen\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fgetln 
function
returns a pointer to the next line from the stream referenced by
.IR stream
This line is
.IR not 
a C string as it does not end with a terminating
.BR NUL
character.
The length of the line, including the final newline,
is stored in the memory location to which
.I len
points.
(Note, however, that if the line is the last
in a file that does not end in a newline,
the returned text will not contain a newline.)
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion a pointer is returned;
this pointer becomes invalid after the next I/O operation on
.I stream
(whether successful or not)
or as soon as the stream is closed.
Otherwise,
.BR NULL
is returned.
The
.BR fgetln 
function
does not distinguish between end-of-file and error; the routines
.BR feof (3)
and
.BR ferror (3)
must be used
to determine which occurred.
If an error occurs, the global variable
.IR errno
is set to indicate the error.
The end-of-file condition is remembered, even on a terminal, and all
subsequent attempts to read will return
.BR NULL
until the condition is
cleared with
.BR clearerr (3).
.LP
The text to which the returned pointer points may be modified,
provided that no changes are made beyond the returned size.
These changes are lost as soon as the pointer becomes invalid.
.SH ERRORS
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
The argument
.I stream
is not a stream open for reading.
.RE
.LP
The
.BR fgetln 
function
may also fail and set
.IR errno
for any of the errors specified for the routines
.BR fflush (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR read (2),
.BR stat (2),
or
.BR realloc (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ferror (3),
.BR fgets (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR putc (3)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR fgetln 
function first appeared in 4.4BSD.
