.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH FSEEK 3 "15 September 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos ,
.BR ftell ,
.BR rewind
\- reposition a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdio.h>
.sp 1
int \fBfseek\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR, long \fIoffset\fR, int \fIwhence\fR);
.br
long \fBftell\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR);
.br
void \fBrewind\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR);
.br
int \fBfgetpos\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR, fpos_t *\fIpos\fR);
.br
int \fBfsetpos\fR (FILE *\fIstream\fR, fpos_t *\fIpos\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fseek 
function sets the file position indicator for the stream pointed
to by
.IR stream .
The new position, measured in bytes, is obtained by adding
.I offset
bytes to the position specified by
.IR whence .
If 
.I whence
is set to
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
or
.BR SEEK_END ,
the offset is relative to the
start of the file, the current position indicator, or end-of-file,
respectively.
A successful call to the
.BR fseek 
function clears the end-of-file indicator for the stream and undoes
any effects of the
.BR ungetc (3)
function on the same stream.
.LP
The
.BR ftell 
function
obtains the current value of the file position indicator for the
stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
.LP
The
.BR rewind 
function sets the file position indicator for the stream pointed
to by
.I stream
to the beginning of the file.
It is equivalent to:
.RS
	(void) fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
except that the error indicator for the stream is also cleared
(see
.BR clearerr (3)).
.LP
The
.BR fgetpos 
and
.BR fsetpos 
functions
are alternate interfaces equivalent to
.BR ftell 
and
.BR fseek 
(with whence set to \fBSEEK_SET\fR),
setting and storing the current value of
the file offset into or from the object referenced by 
.IR pos .
On some non-UNIX
systems an
.B fpos_t
object may be a complex object
and these routines may be the only way to portably reposition a text stream.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The
.BR rewind 
function
returns no value.
Upon successful completion,
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos 
return 0,
and
.BR ftell 
returns the current offset.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and the global variable errno is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.RS
.IP \fBEBADF\fR
The
.I stream
specified
is not a seekable stream.
.IP \fBEINVAL\fR
The
.I whence
argument to 
.BR fseek 
was not
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
or
.BR SEEK_CUR .
.RE
.LP
The function
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos ,
and 
.BR ftell 
may also fail and set
.IR errno
for any of the errors specified for the routines
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lseek (2),
and 
.BR malloc (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2)
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fsetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR ftell ,
and
.BR rewind 
functions
conform to ANSI/C.
