.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)gethostname.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH GETHOSTNAME 3 "25 February 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR gethostname ,
.BR sethostname
\- get/set name of current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
int \fBgethostname\fR (char *\fIname\fR, int \fInamelen\fR);
.br
int \fBsethostname\fR (const char *\fIname\fR, int \fInamelen\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Gethostname 
returns the standard host name for the current processor, as
previously set by
.BR sethostname .
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the 
.I name
array.  The returned name is null-terminated unless insufficient
space is provided.
.LP
.BR Sethostname 
sets the name of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the super-user and
is normally used only when the system is bootstrapped.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the call succeeds a value of 0 is returned.  If the call
fails, a value of -1 is returned and an error code is
placed in the global location
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORS
The following errors may be returned by these calls:
.RS
.IP \fBEFAULT\fR
The
.I name
or
.I namelen
parameter gave an
invalid address.
.IP \fBEPERM\fR
The caller tried to set the hostname and was not the super-user.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gethostid (3),
.BR sysctl (3)
.SH BUGS
Host names are limited to
.BR MAXHOSTNAMELEN
(from <sys/param.h)
characters, currently 256.
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR sethostname
function call appeared in 4.2BSD.
