.\" This man page was written to conform with the lenviron v1.1.3
.\" release for Gno v2.0.3 and later by Devin Reade.
.\"
.\" $Id: isRootPath.3,v 1.1 1997/02/27 07:32:23 gdr Exp $
.\"
.TH ISROOTPATH 3 "30 January 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
isRootPath - test for a full pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <gno/gno.h>

int \fBisRootPath\fR (const char *\fIname\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR isRootPath
tests the string
.IR name
to see if it is the full specification of a path name to a file starting
at the root of the file system.  Under GS/OS,
.IR name
is tested to see if it is a legal volume name, device name, or prefix.
Therefore,
.IR name
is considered to be a full pathname when:
.RS
.sp
It starts with either
.B /
or
.B :
and is at least two characters long;
.sp
It starts with either
.B *
or
.B @
either by themselves or preceeding a
.B /
or
.B :
character;
.sp
It starts with a digit; or
.sp
It starts with
.B .
and is followed by at least one other character, where the next character
is neither
.B /
nor
.BR : .
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
1 - \fIname\fR is a full path name.
.br
0 - \fIname\fR is not a full path name.
.SH CAVEATS
Note that no test for existence of the file is made; only the validity
of the file name is checked.
.LP
With GS/OS, unlike the Unix filesystem,
.B /
is not recognised as a complete file (or directory) name.  Therefore,
.BR isRootPath
will return 0 if
.BR name
is one character long and isn't
.B *
or
.B @
or a digit.
.LP
Under GS/OS, the test is carried out independant of any mounted file
systems, therefore only GS/OS rules are followed.  In particular, there
is no
.BR JudgeName "(3)"
call made, therefore no gaurantee is made that the filename will be valid
for any given file system.
.SH HISTORY
This routine was originally called
.BR if_root_path
and was part of the 
.BR lenviron
library.  It was adapted from code in 
.BR dmake (1)
for GNO v2.0.3 by Devin Reade in April 1994.
It was incorporated into the GNO
.BR libc
as of v2.0.6.
.BR dmake (1)
was written by Dennis Vadura, 
