.\" Man page by Devin Reade.
.\"
.\" $Id: mapPath.3,v 1.2 1999/07/03 14:44:55 gdr-ftp Exp $
.\"
.TH "MAPPATH" 3 "11 December 1996" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR _mapPath,
.BR _mapPathGS,
.BR _setPathMapping
\- (mapPath) convert GS/OS paths to Unix-style paths.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <gno/gno.h>

void _setPathMapping (int \fItoggle\fR);
char *_mapPath (char *\fIpathname\fR);
GSStringPtr _mapPathGS (GSStringPtr \fIpathname\fR);
.nf
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are intended for use by application programmers who are
porting programs from Unix systems.
.LP
The POSIX 1003.1 standard indicates that the pathname separator (that
character which is used to delimit the components of a pathname) must
be the
.I slash
('/') character.  However, GS/OS internally uses the
.I colon
(':') character.  This can cause problems with programs that make
assumptions about the pathname separator.
.LP
The routines
.BR _mapPath
and 
.BR _mapPathGS ,
if active, map all occurances of the ':' character in
.I pathname
to the '/' character.  These routines are intended to be used whenever a
pathname is returned from a GS/OS call.  No assumption is made as to the
existance of the file nor the validity of the filename for any given 
file system.
.LP
On success, these routines return their original arguments.  The only time 
.BR _mapPath
or
.BR _mapPathGS 
can fail is if mapping is active and
.IR pathname
contains
.I both
the ':' and '/' characters.  In such a case, the routine will return NULL and
.IR pathname
will be unchanged.
.LP
For compatibility with native IIgs programs, 
.BR _mapPath
and 
.BR _mapPathGS
are by default null operations --
.IR pathname
is not modified.  In order to activate mapping, the function
.BR _setPathMapping
must be called with a non-zero
.IR toggle .
Although the choice of whether or not to do mapping is usually only
made once in a program, mapping can be turned off again by calling
.BR _setPathMapping
with a zero
.IR toggle .
.LP
These functions are used in various parts of
.BR libc .
Those routines making use of this mapping list the fact in their respective
man pages.
.SH OPTIMIZATION
In cases where it is desirable to avoid the overhead of a function call,
the value of the global integer
.BR __force_slash
may be checked.  If it is non-zero, the mapping function should be called:
.nf

    if (__force_slash) {
        _mapPath(filename);
    }

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Devin Reade <gdr@gno.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "GS/OS Reference Manual" .
