.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)putc.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH PUTC 3 "15 September 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR fputc ,
.BR putc ,
.BR putchar ,
.BR putw
\- output a character or word to a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdio.h>
.sp 1
int \fBfputc\fR (int \fIc\fR, FILE *\fIstream\fR);
.br
int \fBputc\fR (int \fIc\fR, FILE *\fIstream\fR);
.br
int \fBputchar\fR (int \fIc\fR);
.br
int \fBputw\fR (int \fIw\fR, FILE *\fIstream\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fputc 
function
writes the character
.I c
(converted to an ``unsigned char'')
to the output stream pointed to by
.IR stream .
.LP
.BR Putc 
acts essentially identically to
.BR fputc ,
but is a macro that expands in-line. It may evaluate
.I stream
more than once, so arguments given to
.BR putc 
should not be expressions with potential side effects.
.LP
.BR Putchar 
is identical to
.BR putc 
with an output stream of
.IR stdout .
.LP
The
.BR putw 
function
writes the specified
.IR int 
to the named output
.IR stream .
.SH RETURN VALUES
The functions,
.BR fputc ,
.BR putc 
and
.BR putchar 
return the character written.
If an error occurs, the value
.BR EOF
is returned.
The
.BR putw 
function
returns 0 on success;
.BR EOF
is returned if
a write error occurs,
or if an attempt is made to write a read-only stream.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ferror (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR getc (3),
.BR stdio (3)
.SH STANDARDS
The functions
.BR fputc ,
.BR putc ,
and
.BR putchar ,
conform to ANSI/C.
A function
.BR putw 
function appeared in 
.BR v6 .
.SH BUGS
The size and byte order of an
.IR int 
varies from one machine to another, and
.BR putw 
is not recommended for portable applications.
