.\" Man page by Devin Reade.
.\"
.\" $Id: sprintmt.3,v 1.2 1999/01/06 03:44:45 gdr-ftp Exp $
.\"
.TH SPRINTMT 3 "24 October 1998" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR sprintmt ,
.BR vsprintmt
\- multi threading safe print formatting
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <gno/gno.h>
.sp 1
char *\fBsprintmt\fR (char *\fIbuffer\fR, size_t \fIbufferlen\fR,
const char *\fIfmt\fR, ...);
.br
char *\fBvsprintmt\fR (char *\fIbuffer\fR, size_t \fIbufferlen\fR,
const char *\fIfmt\fR, va_list \fIap\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sprintmt
and 
.BR vsprintmt
are multithread-safe versions of the
.BR sprintf (3)
and 
.BR vsprintf (3)
routines.
.LP
The contents of the format string
.IR fmt ,
with appropriate arguments substituted for the format specifiers,
is copied into the user supplied
.IR buffer .
At most, 
.IR bufferlen -1
characters will be written to
.IR buffer .
.LP
These routines have a much more limited set of format specifiers than 
do the usual stdio routines.  They are:
.RS
.IP "\fB%d\fR, \fB%ld\fR"
Print the decimal representation of a value of type
.BR "int" 
or
.BR "long int" , 
respectively.
.IP "\fB%u\fR, \fB%lu\fR"
Print the decimal representation of a value of type
.BR "unsigned int" 
or
.BR "unsigned long int" ,
respectively.
.IP "\fB%x\fR, \fB%X\fR, \fB%lx\fR, \fB%lX\fR"
Print the hexadecimal representation of an
.BR "unsigned int"
or 
.BR "unsigned long int" .
If the 
.B x
character is used, alphabetic characters are in lower case; otherwise
they are in upper case.
.IP \fB%s\fR
Print a NULL-terminated string.
If the 's' is preceeded by an 'l', the 'l' is ignored.
.IP \fB%m\fR
Print the current textual representation of
.BR errno ,
as returned by
.BR strerror (3).
If the 'm' is preceeded by an 'l', the 'l' is ignored.
This format specifier is not available in the usual stdio functions.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return a pointer to the terminating NULL byte in
.IR buffer .
.SH MT STATUS
Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR printf (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.BR strerror (3).
