.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strcasecmp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.TH STRCASECMP 3 "20 February 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR strcasecmp ,
.BR strncasecmp ,
.BR stricmp ,
.BR strincmp 
\- compare strings, ignoring case
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <string.h>
.sp 1
short
\fBstricmp\fR (const char *\fIs1\fR, const char *\fIs2\fR);
.br
short
\fBstrincmp\fR (const char *\fIs1\fR, const char *\fIs2\fR, unsigned \fIn\fR);
.br
int
\fBstrcasecmp\fR (const char *\fIs1\fR, const char *\fIs2\fR);
.br
int
\fBstrncasecmp\fR (const char *\fIs1\fR, const char *\fIs2\fR, size_t \fIlen\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strcasecmp 
and
.BR strncasecmp 
functions
compare the null-terminated strings
.I s1
and
.I s2
and return an integer greater than, equal to, or less than 0,
according as
.I s1
is lexicographically greater than, equal to, or less than
.I s2
after translation of each corresponding character to lower-case.
The strings themselves are not modified.
The comparison is done using unsigned characters, so that
.BR \e200
is greater than
.BR \e0 .
.LP
The
.BR strncasecmp 
compares at most
.I len
characters.
.LP
.BR stricmp
and
.BR strincmp
are functionally identically equal to, and implemented in terms of,
.BR strcasecmp
and
.BR strncasecmp ,
respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR strxfrm (3)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR strcasecmp 
and
.BR strncasecmp 
functions first appeared in 4.4BSD.
