.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strftime.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH STRFTIME 3 "4 July 1999" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR strftime
\- format date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <time.h>
.sp 1
size_t
\fBstrftime\fR (char *\fIbuf\fR, size_t \fImaxsize\fR, const char *\fIformat\fR, const struct tm *\fItimeptr\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strftime 
function formats the information from
.I timeptr
into the buffer
.I buf
according to the string pointed to by
.IR format .
.LP
The
.I format
string consists of zero or more conversion specifications and
ordinary characters.
All ordinary characters are copied directly into the buffer.
A conversion specification consists of a percent sign 
.RB ( % )
and one other character.
.LP
No more than
.I maxsize
characters will be placed into the array.
If the total number of resulting characters, including the terminating
null character, is not more than
.IR maxsize .
.BR strftime 
returns the number of characters in the array, not counting the
terminating null.
Otherwise, zero is returned.
.LP
Each conversion specification is replaced by the characters as
follows which are then copied into the buffer.
.RS
.IP "\fB\&%A\fR"
is replaced by national representation of the full weekday name.
.IP "\fB%a\fR"
is replaced by national representation of
the abbreviated weekday name, where the abbreviation
is the first three characters.
.IP "\fB\&%B\fR"
is replaced by national representation of the full month name.
.IP "\fB%b\fR"
is replaced by national representation of
the abbreviated month name, where the abbreviation is
the first three characters.
.IP "\fB\&%C\fR"
is replaced by (year / 100) as decimal number; single
digits are preceded by a zero.
.IP "\fB%c\fR"
is replaced by national representation of time and date
(the format is similar with produced by
.BR asctime (3)).
.IP "\fB\&%D\fR"
is equivalent to
.BR %m/%d/%y .
.IP "\fB%d\fR"
is replaced by the day of the month as a decimal number (01-31).
.IP "\fB\&%E*\fR"
POSIX locale extensions.
The sequences
%Ec %EC %Ex %Ey %EY
%Od %Oe %OH %OI %Om %OM
%OS %Ou %OU %OV %Ow %OW %Oy
are supposed to provide alternate
representations.
.IP "\fB%e\fR"
is replaced by the day of month as a decimal number (1-31); single
digits are preceded by a blank.
.IP "\fB\&%H\fR"
is replaced by the hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number (00-23).
.IP "\fB%h\fR"
the same as %b.
.IP "\fB\&%I\fR"
is replaced by the hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number (01-12).
.IP "\fB%j\fR"
is replaced by the day of the year as a decimal number (001-366).
.IP "\fB%k\fR"
is replaced by the hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number (0-23);
single digits are preceded by a blank.
.IP "\fB%l\fR"
is replaced by the hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number (1-12);
single digits are preceded by a blank.
.IP "\fB\&%M\fR"
is replaced by the minute as a decimal number (00-59).
.IP "\fB%m\fR"
is replaced by the month as a decimal number (01-12).
.IP "\fB%n\fR"
is replaced by a newline.
.IP "\fB\&%O*\fR"
the same as %E*.
.IP "\fB%p
is replaced by national representation of either
"ante meridiem"
or
"post meridiem"
as appropriate.
.IP "\fB\&%R
is equivalent to
.Dq Li %H:%M .
.IP "\fB%r
is equivalent to
.BR "%I:%M:%S %p" .
.IP "\fB\&%S
is replaced by the second as a decimal number (00-60).
.IP "\fB%s
is replaced by the number of seconds since the Epoch, UTC (see
.BR mktime (3)).
.IP "\fB\&%T
is equivalent to
.Dq Li %H:%M:%S .
.IP "\fB%t
is replaced by a tab.
.IP "\fB\&%U
is replaced by the week number of the year (Sunday as the first day of
the week) as a decimal number (00-53).
.IP "\fB%u
is replaced by the weekday (Monday as the first day of the week)
as a decimal number (1-7).
.IP "\fB\&%V
is replaced by the week number of the year (the first
Monday as the first day of week 1) as a
decimal number (01-53).
.IP "\fB%v
is equivalent to
.BR "%e-%b-%Y" .
.IP "\fB\&%W
is replaced by the week number of the year (Monday as the first day of
the week) as a decimal number (00-53).
.IP "\fB%w
is replaced by the weekday (Sunday as the first day of the week)
as a decimal number (0-6).
.IP "\fB\&%X
is replaced by national representation of the time.
.IP "\fB%x
is replaced by national representation of the date.
.IP "\fB\&%Y
is replaced by the year with century as a decimal number.
.IP "\fB%y
is replaced by the year without century as a decimal number (00-99).
.IP "\fB\&%Z
is replaced by the time zone name.
.IP "\fB%+
is replaced by national representation of the date and time
(the format is similar with produced by
.BR date (1)).
.IP "\fB%%
is replaced by
.BR % .
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR ctime (3),
.BR printf (1),
.BR printf (3)
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR strftime 
function
conforms to ANSI/C.
The
.B %s
conversion specification is an extension.
.SH BUGS
There is no conversion specification for the phase of the moon.
.LP
The GNO version does not currently handle national locales.  The C locale
is assumed.
