.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ttyname.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.TH TTYNAME 3 "29 January 1997" GNO "Library Routines"
.SH NAME
.BR ttyname ,
.BR isatty ,
.BR ttyslot
\- get name of associated terminal (tty) from file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <unistd.h>
.sp 1
char *
\fBttyname\fR (int \fIfd\fR);
.br
int
\fBisatty\fR (int \fIfd\fR);
.br
int
\fBttyslot\fR (void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions operate on the system file descriptors for terminal
type devices. These descriptors are not related to the standard I/O
.BR FILE
typedef, but refer to the special device named \fB.tty\fIxx\fR
and for which an entry exists
in the initialization file
.BR /etc/ttys .
(See
.BR ttys (5).)
.LP
The
.BR isatty 
function
determines if the file descriptor
.I fd
refers to a valid
terminal type device.
.LP
The
.BR ttyname 
function
gets the related device name of
a file descriptor for which
.BR isatty 
is true
.LP
The
.BR ttyslot 
function
fetches the current process' control terminal number from the
.BR ttys (5)
file entry.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The
.BR ttyname 
function
returns the null terminated name if the device is found and
.BR isatty 
is true; otherwise 
a
.BR NULL
pointer is returned.
.LP
The
.BR ttyslot 
function
returns the unit number of the device file if found; otherwise
the value zero is returned.
.SH FILES
.RS
.It Pa /dev/\(**
.It Pa /etc/ttys
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ttys (5)
.SH HISTORY
A
.BR isatty ,
.BR ttyname ,
and
.BR ttyslot 
function
appeared in v7.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR ttyname 
function leaves its result in an internal static object and returns
a pointer to that object. Subsequent calls to
.BR ttyname 
will modify the same object.
