<!--
;; $Id: glossary.docbook,v 1.1 2012/08/25 07:19:02 gdr Exp $
-->

<glossary id="gsh-glossary">
<title>Glossary</title>

<!--
;;
;; Make sure you keep all these entries properly sorted.  They will
;; appear exactly in the order in which you see them here; no automated
;; sorting is done.
;;
;; Here is a glossary entry template for you to cut and paste:
;;
<glossentry>
	<glossterm></glossterm>
	<glossdef>
	<para>
	</para>
	</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
;;
;;
-->

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Alias</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A name used as an
        abbreviation for one or more commands. An alias allows
        you to replace any command string with a short sequence
        of characters.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Applesoft</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	An implementation of BASIC for the Apple II.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>APW</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Apple Programmer's Workshop. Similar to ORCA.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>BASIC</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Beginners All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code.  A simple computer
        language.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Built-in Command</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        A command processed by <command>gsh</command>. These commands are not
        external to the shell, but are included within the 
	<command>gsh</command> program.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Command</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	An action for <command>gsh</command> to perform. Commands can be
	either simple or compound. A simple command is an alias assignment,
        variable assignment, I/O redirection, or built-in
        command. A compound command is a pipeline.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Directory</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A special
        type of file that contains a list of other files; usually
        used to categorize files related in some way.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Environment</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	The state of a process, which includes information such as
        its open files, current directory (working directory),
        and local and global variables. Three environments exist
        under <command>gsh</command>:
	<variablelist>

	<varlistentry>
	<term>Child Environment</term>
	<listitem>
	<para>
	The environment of the child process.
	</para>
	</listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	<term>Current Environment</term>
	<listitem>
	<para>
	The environment of the current process.
	</para>
	</listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	<term>Parent Environment</term>
	<listitem>
	<para>
	The environment of the parent process.
	</para>
	</listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	</variablelist>
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>
	
<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Environment file</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        A file that is interpreted by an application to allow the
        user to customize its operation. For <command>gsh</command>, this
        file is <filename>gshrc</filename>.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Export</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A way to pass a variable from a parent process to child process.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>File</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	An object used
        to store data and/or programs. On the IIgs, files
        are tagged with types such as EXE, SRC, TXT, and so forth.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Filter</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A command
        that reads from its standard input and writes to its
        standard output. For example, a filter program could be
        written to convert all characters to upper case. Filters
        are used mainly in pipelines.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Flag</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A character
        used to represent an option to a command. Flags are
        either short or long options whose character
        representations are "-" and "+".
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Glob</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Slang for Pathname Expansion.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>GNO/ME</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	GNO Multitasking Environment. The complete package including
        the GNO kernel and the GNO Shell.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>GNO Kernel</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Heart of GNO/ME.  Executes processes when asked by the GNO Shell.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>GNO Shell</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Provides
        an interface between the user and the GNO kernel.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>gsh</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	GNO Implementation of a UNIX-like shell.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>GS/OS</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	16 bit
        Operating System for the Apple IIgs.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>History</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A variable
        number of command-lines saved by <command>gsh</command> for future
        reference. The number of command-lines saved is dependent
        on the HISTORY environment variable.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>History file</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A file
        containing command-lines entered while in a <command>gsh</command>
        session. The number of command-lines saved is dependent
        on the SAVEHIST environment variable.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Interrupt</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A signal
        generated by a sequence of keyboard characters or by a
        command that terminates the current executing process,
        unless the process has set up a trap to handle the
        interrupt signal.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>I/O Redirection</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	The
        process of changing the standard input, standard output,
        and standard error associated with a process so that it
        is redirected to a file instead of the console.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Job</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A set of related
        processes. A job can be either:

	<variablelist>

	<varlistentry>
	<term>Background Job</term>
	<listitem>
	<para>
	A process
        that executes with the current process. Background jobs
        are not associated with the terminal.
	</para>
	</listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	<term>Foreground Job</term>
	<listitem>
	<para>
	A process
        that is currently executing and which is associated with
        the terminal.
	</para>
	</listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	</variablelist>
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Multiprocessing</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        Indicates a machine with more than one CPU.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Multitasking</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The ability to run more than one program at a time, or the
        illusion of more than one program running at a time;
        usually the latter.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>ORCA</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Shell programing
        environment for the Apple //gs. Also a type of whale.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Path Search</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	The means of searching a pathname list for a command or
        script.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pathname</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A string used to identify a file.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pathname Completion</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The means of generating all pathnames matching a given pattern.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pathname Expansion</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	The means of replacing a pattern with a list of pathnames
        matching that pattern.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pattern</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A string of
        characters used to match literal characters and/or
        multiple characters.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Permission</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Each file
        has certain permissions associated with it: destroy,
        rename, backup, invisible, write, and read.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pipe</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A conduit
        through which a stream of characters can pass from one
        process to another. This is accomplished by linking the
        standard output of one process to the standard input of a
        second process.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Pipeline</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Two or more
        processes connected together by pipes.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Process</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A single
        thread of execution that consists of a program and an
        execution environment.  If a process creates another process,
	the creator is known as the <emphasis>parent process</emphasis>;
	the created process is known as the <emphasis>child process</emphasis>.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Process ID</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Each active process is uniquely identified by a positive
        integer called the process id.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>ProDOS</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	8-bit Disk
        Operating System for Apple II computers.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Prompt</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A message
        displayed by <command>gsh</command> when it is ready to receive a
        command.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Quoting</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A means of
        including special characters as arguments to a command or
        as the command name. Certain characters have certain
        meanings to <command>gsh</command> and quoting them makes
	<command>gsh</command> ignore them.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Reserved Word</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A word
        that is treated specially by <command>gsh</command>. This word is
        part of the <command>gsh</command> grammar.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Script</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A sequence of
        commands contained in a file.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Signal</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	An asynchronous message that consists of a number or name
        that can be sent from one process to another.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Standard Error</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The file associated with error messages for a process. This
        file is usually the terminal.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Standard Input</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The file associated with a processes input. This file is
        usually the terminal.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Standard Output</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The file associated with a processes output. This file is
        usually the terminal.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Tilde Expansion</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        Words beginning with "~" are treated
        specially by <command>gsh</command>. The "~" is
        expanded to the value of the HOME environment variable.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>UNIX</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	Popular
        operating system which has growing use in education and
        business. One of the first operating systems to support
        multitasking.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Variable</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	A named
        location in <command>gsh</command> that contains text. The text of a
        variable can be expanded in a command by preceding the
        variable name with a dollar sign ($).
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Wildcard</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
	See Pattern and Pathname Expansion.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

<glossentry>
	<glossterm>Working directory</glossterm>
	<glossdef><para>
        The current directory.
	</para></glossdef></glossentry>

</glossary>
