<!--
;; $Id: prefix.docbook,v 1.1 2012/08/25 07:19:02 gdr Exp $
-->

<appendix id="gsh-app-prefix">
<title>Prefix Conventions</title>

<para>
When <command>gsh</command> is started, GS/OS assigns
certain values to individual prefixes, and usually the
<filename>gshrc</filename>
file also sets some prefixes. A total of 32 prefixes are
available to the user. The following list documents each prefix
and the purpose of each.
</para>

<para>
If version 2.x of the ORCA languages are being used, then prefixes 9 and 13
through 18 should mirror prefixes 1 through 7.  For a discussion on
the differences in these two prefix sets, see your ORCA language reference
manual.
</para>

<para>
<table colsep="1" frame="all" rowsep="1" tocentry="1" shortentry="0"
orient="land" pgwide="0">
<title>GS/OS Prefix Conventions</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<!-- tribby:  This table would, of course, look better if the prefix numbers
 were given a narrow column and the prefix descriptions a wide column.
 However, experimenting with the documented parameters does not seem to
 give good results.  This should be revisited at a later time (ie:  once
 I get around to asking some questions on the sgmltools mailing list) -->
<colspec colnum="1" align="center"/>
<colspec colnum="2" align="left"/>
<thead>
<row>
    <entry align="center">Number</entry>
    <entry align="center">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>@</entry>
    <entry>
    AppleShare prefix. If GNO resides on an
    AppleShare volume, this prefix is set to the pathname of
    the user's directory on the file server; otherwise, this
    prefix is set to the same pathname as prefix number 9.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>*</entry>
    <entry>
    Boot volume prefix. It is not
    possible to modify the value of this prefix with the
    shell's <command>prefix</command> command. The only other way to
    access this prefix is the GS/OS <function>_GetBootVol</function> call.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>0</entry>
    <entry>
    Prefix 0 is the current working
    directory. It is the prefix that is changed by the <command>cd</command>
    command.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>1, 9</entry>
    <entry>
    This is the directory in which the currently executing program resides.
    In the shell, this is usually <filename>/bin</filename>.
    The kernel sets these prefixes appropriately for each
    program that is executed.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>2, 13</entry>
    <entry>
    These prefixes should be set to the pathname of the ORCA libraries
    directory.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>3, 14</entry>
    <entry>
    These prefixes should be set to the same directory as contains
    the ORCA/Shell program, <filename>ORCA.SYS16</filename>.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>4, 15</entry>
    <entry>
    These prefixes should be set to the pathname of the ORCA "shell"
    directory.  This is the directory that contains the files, 
    <filename>Editor</filename>,
    <filename>SysTabs</filename>,
    <filename>SysCmnd</filename>,
    and so forth.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>5, 16</entry>
    <entry>
    These prefixes should be set to the pathname of the ORCA languages
    directory.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>6, 17</entry>
    <entry>
    These prefixes should be set to the pathname of the ORCA utilities
    directory.
    </entry>
</row>
<row>
    <entry>7, 18</entry>
    <entry>
    This should be set to a temp directory; one that can be used by various
    programs for scratch files.  Using a RAMDisk for this purpose can speed
    up many programs.  See also the <command>renram5</command>(8) and
    <command>mktmp</command>(8) commands.
    </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</para>


</appendix>
